the kind of misinformation I see
spreading within veganism today
sometimes under the head of drama under
this new sport we've made out of
slandering people the kind of
disinformation I see scares me because I
see people playing the game who have
lost the ability to distinguish between
truth and fiction and there are people
who lie maliciously who know that
they're telling lies but there are also
people who are not really aware that
they're lying they've lost track at the
dotted line or they've forgotten who
made up what or that's just a
personality type they can't swim in a
sea of misinformation and keep their
heads above water now some of you may
know I used to be a scholar of Buddhism
a long time ago there was one other guy
I guess I'm not gonna name him but I
could there was a guy who became not
just a scholar of Buddhism but a
professor he got his PhD and he became a
University of professor of Buddhism and
he had to resign his job he had to quit
his job as a professor destroyed his
career because he became sympathetic to
so called revisionist historians of
world war two in the Holocaust
to be blunt he briefly endorsed
Holocaust denial ISM this is a sad and
interesting story for the following
reason like many people involved in
Buddhism I think he was a bit of a
mystic in his inclination he said of
himself in an interview that since his
childhood he loved the feeling of
unraveling a mystery of perhaps engaging
in conspiracy theory thinking and
probably that's somewhat of things that
drew him into research on but his
philosophy the feeling that you know
like unraveling a yarn figuring out a
puzzle or a mystery something intriguing
about what made
Buddhist philosophy difficult to
understand now other people also told me
by the way that his scholarship was
garbage and I saw some warning signs not
to but hey let's be generous
that's not the point of this video
whether or not he was a good scholar of
Buddhism is is another question and
whether or not that's the skill set or
attitude that you need to be a good
scholar put us up is another question
but the same spirit of inquiry through
him sincerely into the company of people
who were trading in lies and half-truths
and misinformation and so-called
revisionist history in Holocaust denial
ISM etc and he couldn't keep his head
above water and briefly for a short
period of his life he became a believer
in these lies about world war two with
the Holocaust Judaism anti-semitism etc
but pretty quickly he also figured it
out he figured out like you know some of
the claims are archaeological some that
I actually have to do with digging up
human remains you don't have to be a
genius to work your way through that web
of lies and verify some of those facts
and realize how wrong these things are
so he did but too late his career as a
scholar of Buddhism was forever
destroyed and his career as a professor
was destroyed and he went on to make
some really bizarre and eccentric
websites that I don't know I don't know
what else he was capable of but I guess
he went on from one crazy conspiracy
theory to the next what I see going on
now and veganism you know you think you
can't be disappointed because your
expectations are so low but I am
disappointed and I am worried and I'm
worried for this same reason I see
people who are swimming and they don't
know what's true and what's false
anymore and they don't know who's
intentionally playing a game who's
making up stories and who's being
sincere and who is just crazy
and I don't know did other political
movements in the history of the world
have to deal with this problem maybe
maybe to some extent did they have to
deal with it so rapidly did they have to
deal with it at this speed at this
intensity I don't even feel the need to
defend myself I guess most of this stuff
like what is it in human nature or in
these people's character that makes it
entertaining for them to say that I
don't have a university diploma like why
would that lie even be entertaining or
interesting I do have a university
diploma and it's not something I brag
about it's just not a great
accomplishment
it's nothing um I don't know I might be
more proud that I won a three-legged
race or something it's just not a big
deal to me
lies from the most banal I mean some of
them some of them are mean-spirited but
some of them are just meaningless I'm
worried I'm worried about where that's
going a few days ago one of my fellow
vegans said to me very sincerely that
this was the worst community she'd ever
been involved in she used the word
community I I avoid that word because I
don't think we are community is you know
and I had to say back well for me it's
not I've seen worse and I alluded to my
experience with ecological politics the
green party with the Canadian left-wing
in general I do not identify as
left-wing but I know a lot about the
left-wing and talked about Buddhism
how bad does it get within Buddhism
really bad most of you don't know this
I've written one article about it most
you won't believe me when I say this but
the origins of the Nazi ideology are
actually linked to put a scholarship
there's one guy called max Muller who
gets blamed for it
he's partly to blame but it's kind of
just an accident of history that he's
ended up being that the famous name that
all the plane gets hung on but really
the invention of several crucial
elements of Nazi ideology is linked to
Western english-language Buddhist
scholarship so from the very start you
could say that fascism within European
Buddhism it's it predates the Nazi Party
this is not the only ugly ideologically
loaded element of what goes on in
Buddhism to give another very
interesting example there is also a link
right at the root right at its basis
between tera vaada Buddhism and Satanism
by which I mean British Satanism so I'm
not talking about ancient Israel talking
about modern England and the reinvention
of Satanism or first invention of
Satanism Satanism as a new religious
movement is very directly linked to tear
about a buddhism in england so the guy
known as Aleister Crowley his best
friend became a terabyte of Buddhist
monk and Crowley's philosophy is in very
large part an adaptation of tera vaada
Buddhist philosophy I know it may come
as a surprise but it's true so there are
a lot of these kind of weird things and
that's even if you're a legitimate
scholar who knows about the legitimate
history textual philosophy etc those
links are there how bad does it get
there was one guy I could name him he
still has a YouTube channel he's still
active I'm gonna choose not to name him
there was one guy who let's say 10 years
ago was a major well-known lecturer in
Buddhism in Canada
unfortunately you can figure out who I'm
talking about but please don't please
don't goof less and let's say five years
ago I noticed in one of his videos and I
avoid him I didn't want to talk to him
because there was some slightly insane
stuff in his approach to Buddhism and I
just didn't have any reason to wouldn't
be rewarding for me but I remember I
picked out a few things he said and I
could tell implicitly that he was
influenced by fascism by Nazi ideology
within the Buddhist world and when I
heard that I thought I wanted to talk to
him because I was interested then
research in this area I was interested
in knowing was he himself aware of it or
was he one of these people like I've
been describing was he just swimming in
this biased literature was he swimming
in this junk scholarship was he in a
situation where he didn't know the
difference between good scholarship and
bad scholarship between truth and lies
between biased and unbiased sources on
this kind of philosophy philosophy
history language etc Center that was
what I want to know so I got in touch
them and I talked to him at that time
there was nothing on his YouTube channel
or nothing in his web presence that
openly identified him as a fascist or a
Nazi it was a right-wing or even and he
formerly was married to a woman who was
not white who was a non-white person I
don't think they had kids but you know
obviously that's the sort of thing where
I don't think he'd be allowed to be a
member of most you know most of those
kinds of political groups but anyway and
like many Buddhist he lived in Asia etc
etc in the years that followed after my
conversation with him his web presence
gradually transformed and he became more
and more openly you know the most
ridiculous kind of
Piper fascists you know you can meet
Buddhists who misrepresent Buddhism as
supporting communism as supporting
Bolshevism revolution total equality and
ended slavery upliftment of women
uplifting the poor uplifting the workers
and you can meet Buddhists who interpret
Buddhism as justifying slavery and
fascism and racism and the caste system
but what I hated dealing with in
Buddhism was that miasma of people who
didn't know the difference and couldn't
know the difference between truth and
fiction it's dangerous and you can't
even debate with it and there's no clear
way forward it's just sad and it's scary
and it's demoralizing to deal with and I
don't want veganism to end up in that
same state you know we don't have 2500
years of superstition we barely have 25
years of rational secular discourse here
and yet look at what we're becoming look
what we've become you know I've seen a
mythology develop around me and change
within a few months I've seen people
seriously argue that I never lived in
Laos that I never lived in Cambodia that
that was a false story made up about me
by the CIA a backstory I've seen people
seriously claim that I'm being employed
by the meat and dairy industry to
destroy veganism from within I've seen
one mythology after another I've seen
the mythology that I'm a millionaire
I've seen the mythology that I'm poor
that I'm broke that I'm somehow stealing
money because I'm so poor
in a space of months did other political
movements have to deal with this maybe
did they have to deal with it so rapidly
and did they deal with it you know in
terms of anti-semitism still to this day
you'll find Russians especially Russians
who passionately argue that Lenin the
dictator important figure in his time of
the Lenin and Lenin was secretly Jewish
and that the whole history of communism
can be explained by this hidden fact but
there has to be some verifiable source
there has to be some referent there has
to be some way for the [ __ ] to stop
there has to be some point at which
people sit down and say no Lenin was not
Jewish and this anti-semitic approach to
history doesn't explain anything doesn't
solve anything and you know obviously
when you get into something like
Buddhism
what are you get into something like
communism when you get into the realm of
faith you lose all those moorings pretty
quick so that's all I can share with you
in this video I'm worried and I'm not
worried for myself Who I am what I care
about my passion comes across in these
videos clearly enough no matter how many
lies people tell about me I have total
confidence in myself and my message what
I don't have confidence in is the future
of veganism in the next thirty years
these are the raw materials we have to
work with I once said to vegan cheetahs
audience when I was in his chat room and
a live chat for better or for worse you
people are the future of veganism for
better or for worse we have to take that
opportunity seriously and in some ways
in terms of the nonsense going on right
now
we have to take that warning seriously I
don't want to think about how much worse
it's gonna get